" Hello, welcome to the Cospitude doing presentations like the Pro, where we are going to consider 10 interesting lessons.
I am very sure that anything you want to do, you want to be seen as the expert, you want to be seen as the professional who is actually
good at what he does. And when it comes to the idea of presentations, you want to actually show that you know exactly what you
are doing. In the first lesson, we will consider the rudiments of academic presentation, which will answer the questions
of words, why, where, who and how, as far as academic presentations are concerned, we will get to investigate the basics,
the fundamentals, the things that really form the crux of academic presentations. Get into it, what is academic presentation?
Academic presentation involves a speaker sharing academic knowledge or discoveries with an audience. Such a presentation
can be about the findings of a research, which expand the body of knowledge in a given subject matter. Academic presentations
can be informed of posters and they could be delivered orally without a deck of slides. So when you give academic presentations,
you are actually presenting new ideas or you are presenting all the ideas in a new way or you are trying to expound an idea that
has always been and that can be done through graphic methods like posters or you can actually talk about those things using
slides. Do why academic presentations are necessary? It is important to note that it helps to promote education by encouraging
the cross-fotalization of ideas. The beauty of a speaker making a presentation is basically to arouse the curiosity of
the audience such that intelligent questions are asked and answered. So when you make a presentation, what you are trying
to do is that you want to get people interested in the thoughts you are sharing. You want them to investigate further into
the idea you are presenting to them. Considering where academic presentations take place, we can easily identify places
like classrooms, seminars, webinars, workshops and conferences. All these are various avenues for knowledge dissemination.
So in short, wherever knowledge is disseminated, you have a platform, you have a good platform to make academic presentations.
You have a platform to share your ideas in such settings. Next, who should give academic presentations? The answer to this
would basically be everyone who is involved in the knowledge creation process. Of course, the consumers of knowledge are
basically students and one way to find out is they are really guessing what is the thought of them is to make them make presentations
is to give them platforms to present what they have learned. By so doing, we can actually know how far and how fast they are
imbibing the ideas that have been sold to them. Teachers are also very important. People that should make presentations.
Of course, by the very essence of their job description, we have to present new kinds of information to their students. And
that is teaching on its own can be said to be a form of academic presentation. And the principles of academic presentation
should actually be useful in that process. Researchers are also people that are important in giving academic presentations.
As they go about investigating things as they try to see the causes and effects of setting phenomena, by the time they arrive
at whatever findings they arrive at, they should be able to disseminate the information because it is important to note
that any research that has been made, they have no bearing on society is actually an exercise in futility. So researchers
having discovered things in the course of their duties should actually make academic presentations to share the ideas
to sell the ideas for the promotion of knowledge. Policy makers are also important stakeholders in the knowledge creation
process who should make presentations in most places. One research has conducted their research and have got different
kinds of findings. They are usually expected to come up with policies statements which are presented to say lawmakers that
can actually make legislations around these things. Such people who get to their point of making policies should actually
make their presentations because in making laws for instance, presentations are made and people get to debate all of this
points before legislations are formed that are accepted for implementation in society. Finally, we look at how academic
presentations should be and with that say, I think academic presentations should be clear, they should be concise and captivating.
In other words, academic presentations should be easy to understand. That is the element of clarity. Why you make a presentation?
Nobody should be in doubt as to what you are saying. The idea should be clear enough to everyone. Academic presentations
also should contain every necessary information in as few words as possible. This talks about conciseness. We do not use
words unnecessarily, anywhere that is not important in your presentation is better removed. You have enough words to describe
what you are talking about in such a way that the idea you are selling is actually comprehensive. Academic presentations
should also arouse the interest of listeners. So a successful presentation is one that makes people who are listening to
you to actually want to investigate further what you have told them in summary. We have seen the definition of academic presentations,
why they are necessary, the context in which they are necessary, who should make such presentations and how pro-levels
presentations should be. To learn all this information, I am sure you will give smashing presentations going forward.
When next year on opportunity, you definitely want to put up your A game so that your presentations can be clear, concise
